feat: backwards compatibility for external developers (#167)
KILTprotocol/docs: docs/develop/01_sdk/02_cookbook/06_upgrading_to_v0_29/01_backwards_compatibility.md

title: Backwards Compatibility / Interoperability with Previous Versions
---

> Depending on how exactly your application interacts with other applications, the changed data formats might make them incompatible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on how exactly your application interacts with other applications, changes to the data formats introduced with v0.29 of the sdk might make your application incompatible with those using older versions.
```

Reviewer: should we maybe remind people what this is about ?

Author: ![grafik](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/133055/196186592-cdca5026-7ee4-4a69-b8a9-c1753521a7d7.png)
I feel like it would be too much of v0.29, and that from the current version it is clear enough what this is about:
![grafik](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/133055/196187032-644b08df-5ec9-4e18-8fa1-d436b40af71d.png)

Reviewer: Ok I'm fine with that

Supporting only the latest version will result in poor user experience and therefore is not recommended.

> We have only identified the Credentials API as definitely having breaking changes. 

Reviewer: Messaging is affected too, and of course if people archive or exchange data conforming to our interfaces they would also need to translate it at some point. The Credential API is a good example case of how to manage this breaking change in our messaging, but in this document we should also shortly touch upon what people need to consider if they are interfacing with applications directly via messaging. If they push data around any other way I guess they are on their own, but we could at least make them aware.

Author: Do we know people or projects doing any of that?

Reviewer: I don't have an overview over who does what, I guess Dudley would. But this is also not a letter to our friends...

Author: My idea was that if no one is using it, maybe we don’t have to describe it in more details. I suggest that now we merge this as a starting point, and you can extend this text in the main PR according to your vision. What do you think?

Reviewer: ok yeah that's an idea

The new version 3.0 of [Credentials API specification](https://github.com/KILTprotocol/spec-ext-credential-api) uses the data types from the SDK version 0.29.
Since the specification requires the dApp and the extension to announce the versions of the API they use,
it is relatively simple to make your application backwards compatible.
Note that we anticipate the extensions to be upgraded first, so the dApps will not have to be backwards compatible.

In the attester flow the messages `submit-terms` and `request-attestation` are affected.
In the verifier flow the `submit-credential` message is affected.

> The extension can achieve compatibility by translating the messages received from and sent to the previous versions of DApps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The extension can achieve compatibility by translating the messages received from and sent to the previous versions of dApps.
```

> We will link here to the code examples to achieve that, but you can also implement the following steps yourself.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We will provide below the code examples to achieve that, but you can also implement the following steps yourself.
```

It looks like the code examples are directly in this document, not linked to.

Author: I wanted to link to code examples in the Sporran repo, not to include the actual code in this document

  ...
}

interface New {
  cTypes: Array<ICTypeSchema> // Note that 0.29 renames ICTypeSchema to ICType
  ...
}
```

> Before sending the `request-attestation` to the old dApp rename `credential` to `requestForAttestation`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before sending the `request-attestation` to the old dApp, rename `credential` to `requestForAttestation`:
```

```ts
interface New {
  credential: { claim, ... }
  quote?: IQuoteAgreement
}

interface Old {
  requestForAttestation: { claim, ... }
  quote?: IQuoteAgreement
}
```

Before sending the `submit-credential` to the old dApp, 
for every item replace it with an object having the property `request` with the value of item itself,

> and the property `attestation` being the attestation for this credential.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before sending the `submit-credential` to the old dApp, 
replace every item with an object having the property `request` with the value of item itself,
and the property `attestation` with the attestation for this credential.
```
